September 2025 Newsletter

GCE Welsh First Language, GCSE Welsh
Language, GCSE Welsh Literature, Welsh Entry
Level, GCSE Welsh Language and Literature

I hope you have had a chance to enjoy the summer holidays and are ready for a new season in your
centres. We would like to  wish  you  well  on  the  start  of a new  academic  year in  your  departments.
Below you will find information to remind you exactly what we have on our subject pages and key
dates for the upcoming year.

GCSE Welsh Language

•  Visit the secure website to read the moderator's report on the work of your centre's Unit 1 in

the Summer 2025 series.

•  Unit 1 samples submission date (Series November 2025) together with relevant paperwork 5
November 2025. IAMIS will open for loading the paperwork and samples on 14 October.

•  Series Examination Dates November 2025 Unit 2 7 November. Unit 3 11 November.
•  Unit 1 samples submission date (Summer Series 2026) together with relevant paperwork 24

March 2026.

•  Visit our Digital Resources website on the WJEC website to find a series of blended learning

lessons/resources based on GCSE Welsh Language Units 1-3.

GCSE Welsh Literature

•  Visit the secure website to read the moderator's report on the work of your centre's Units 3

and 4 in the Summer 2025 series.

•  Visit our Secure Website to see Welsh Literature Unit 4 Sample Tasks (2025-2026).
•  Unit 1 (Poetry) exam date 9 January 2026.
•  Welsh Literature Unit 3 Assessment Dates:

Foundation Tier 16 April 2026.
Higher Tier 17 April 2026.

•  Unit  3  and  4  samples  submission  date  (Summer  Series  2026)  together  with  relevant

paperwork 5 May 2026.

•  Visit our Digital Resources website on the WJEC website to find a series of blended learning

lessons/resources based on GCSE Welsh Literature Units 1-4.

GCE Welsh (First Language)

•  GCE oral exam dates Summer 2026 Unit 1 and 4 assessments 16 March – 1 May 2026.
•  Visit the secure website to read the moderator's report on the work of your centre's Unit 2 in

the Summer 2024 series.

•  Unit 2 samples submission date (Summer Series 2026) together with relevant paperwork 15

May 2026.

•  Visit our Digital Resources website on the WJEC website to find a series of blended learning

lessons/resources based on GCE Units 1-6 Welsh First Language.

Remember  to  voice  your  opinion  ond  the  AS  and  A  Level  consultation  below.  (Closing  date  12
September 2025)

Ymgynghoriad UG a Safon Uwch mewn Cymraeg a Cymraeg Craidd yn fyw | Cymwysterau Cymru

Entry Level

•  Visit the secure website to read the moderator's report on the work of your centre's Units 2

and 3 in the Summer 2025 series.

•  Unit  2  and  3  samples  submission  date  (Summer  Series  2026)  together  with  relevant

paperwork 5 May 2026.

GCSE Welsh Language and Literature

•  Exam date Summer 2026 Unit 1 1 June 2026.
•  Unit  2  and  3  samples  submission  date  (Summer  Series  2026)  together  with  relevant

paperwork 24 March 2026.

•  Visit our Digital Resources website on the WJEC website to find a series of blended learning

lessons/resources based on GCSE Units 1-6 Welsh Language and Literature.

Professional Learning

Our new Assessment Feedback Package for 2025-26 is an opportunity to gain a deeper
understanding of how assessments are marked or moderated. This integrated suite of resources and
training brings together free access to Principal Examiner reports, marked scripts, and online
assessment feedback sessions, as well as a range of optional paid face-to-face Professional Learning
events. Learn more about how you and your learners can benefit from our Assessment Feedback
Package here: Assessment Feedback Package 2025-26 (wjec.co.uk). You can download the most
recent Principal Examiner Report and register for FREE, online feedback events on our qualification
page.

Entry Level

Join us in our live webinar: Feedback on Summer Assessments 2024 (FREE)

Online, 2 October 2025, 15:30-17:00 Events for 02/10/2025

GCE Welsh First Language

Join us in our live webinar: Feedback on Summer Assessments 2025 (FREE)

Online, 16 October, 15:30-17:00 Events for 16/10/2025

Join us in our face to face training events: Teaching methods and making the best use of resources.

Llandudno – 20 November 2025 Events for 20/11/2025

Aberystwyth – 21 November 2025 Events for 21/11/2025

Cardiff – 27 November 2025 Events for 27/11/2025

GCSE Welsh Language and Literature

Join us in our live webinar: Preparing to assess the NEA – units 2, 3 and 5. (FREE)

Online, 23 October, 15:30-17:00 Events for 23/10/2025

DP Materials

PL Type
Your Guide to the new
specification module

Aims
To support your understanding
of the specification document.

Exam and NEA Walk-throughs
Access via the WJEC Portal
secure website

To support you and your
learners to understand the
structure of question
papers/NEA briefs, question
types, assessment objectives
and marking methods.

Contact details: cymraeg@cbac.co.uk

Subject Officer: Manon Maddock – manon.maddock@cbac.co.uk
Subject Adviser: Osian Higham – osian.higham@cbac.co.uk
Subject Support Officer: Sara James – sara.james@cbac.co.uk

Format and Notes
This asynchronous module will
be on the "training on
demand" tab of your
qualification page on the
WJEC website. You will need
to register to access a link to
view.
These pre-recorded PPT will
initially be published on the
WJEC Portal secure website
only.

